Simple queries on Joins:

1) Retrieve the name, birthdate and address of every employee who works for the ‘administration’ department.

    SELECT Fname, Lname, bdate, Address FROM Employee WHERE Dno = (SELECT Dnumber FROM Department WHERE Dname = 'Administration');

2) Find the sum of the salaries of all employees of the ‘Research’
department, as well as the maximum salary, the minimum salary, and the average salary in this department.

    SELECT Sum(Salary) FROM Employee WHERE Dno = (SELECT Dnumber FROM Department WHERE Dname = 'Research') GROUP BY Dno;

    SELECT Max(Salary) FROM Employee WHERE Dno = (SELECT Dnumber FROM Department WHERE Dname = 'Research') GROUP BY Dno;

    SELECT Min(Salary) FROM Employee WHERE Dno = (SELECT Dnumber FROM Department WHERE Dname = 'Research') GROUP BY Dno;

    SELECT Avg(Salary) FROM Employee WHERE Dno = (SELECT Dnumber FROM Department WHERE Dname = 'Research') GROUP BY Dno;

    SELECT Sum(Salary), Max(Salary), Min(Salary), Avg(Salary) FROM Employee WHERE Dno = (SELECT Dnumber FROM Department WHERE Dname = 'Research') GROUP BY Dno;

3) Retrieve the number of employees in the ‘administration’ department

    SELECT Count(ssn) FROM Employee WHERE Dno = (SELECT Dnumber FROM Department WHERE Dname = 'Administration');

4) For each project, retrieve the project number, the project name, and the number of employees who work on that project.

5) For each project, retrieve the project number, the project name, project location and the number of employees from department 5 who work on the project.

6) For every project located in ‘Houston’, list the project number, the controlling department number, and the department manager’s last name, address.

7) Retrieve a list of employees and the projects they are working on, ordered by department and, within each department, ordered alphabetically by the first name then by last name.

8) Retrieve the names of all employees who do not have supervisors.

   
9) Retrieve the names of all employees whose supervisor’s supervisor has ‘987654321’ for Ssn.


10) Retrieve  the department name, manager name, and manager salary for every department.

11)  Retrieve the employee name, supervisor name, and employee salary for each employee who works in the ‘Research’ department.


12)  Retrieve the project name, controlling department name, number of employees, and total hours worked per week on the project for each project.

	
13) Retrieve the project name, controlling department name, number of employees, and total hours worked per week on the project for each project with more than one employee working on it.

	
14) Find the names of employees who work on all the projects controlled by department number 5.


15) Retrieve the names of all employees in department 5 who work more than 10 hours per week on the ProductX project.


16) List the names of all employees who have a dependent with the same first name as themselves.

17)   Find the names of all employees who are directly supervised by ‘Franklin Wong’.


18)  For each project, list the project name and the total hours per week (by all employees) spent on that project.


19)  Retrieve the average salary of all female employees.





