Views Exercises (Movie-Rating Database)

Schema:
Movie ( mID, title, year, director )
English: There is a movie with ID number mID, a title, a release year, and a director.

Reviewer ( rID, name )
English: The reviewer with ID number rID has a certain name.

Rating ( rID, mID, stars, ratingDate )
English: The reviewer rID gave the movie mID a number of stars rating (1-5) on a certain ratingDate.

Each exercise asks you to create a view, and then write a query using that view, perhaps along with previously created views and/or the base tables. The correct results for the queries over the provided data can be seen by pressing the button at the bottom of the page.


1.Create a view called TNS containing title-name-stars triples, where the movie (title) was reviewed by a reviewer (name) and received the rating (stars). Then referencing only view TNS and table Movie, write a SQL query that returns the lastest year of any movie reviewed by Chris Jackson. You may assume movie names are unique.

2.Referencing view TNS from Exercise 1 and no other tables, create a view RatingStats containing each movie title that has at least one rating, the number of ratings it received, and its average rating. Then referencing view RatingStats and no other tables, write a SQL query to find the title of the highest-average-rating movie with at least three ratings.

3.Create a view Favorites containing rID-mID pairs, where the reviewer with rID gave the movie with mID the highest rating he or she gave any movie. Then referencing only view Favorites and tables Movie and Reviewer, write a SQL query to return reviewer-reviewer-movie triples where the two (different) reviewers have the movie as their favorite. Return each pair once, i.e., don't return a pair and its inverse.

Answers:
1.1982
2.Raiders of the Lost Ark
3.These tuples can be returned in any order, and it's okay if the reviewer names are reversed
(Sarah Martinez, Mike Anderson, Gone with the Wind)
(Daniel Lewis, Elizabeth Thomas, Snow White)
(Brittany Harris, Chris Jackson, Raiders of the Lost Ark)









